use example-get-started repo in pull examples (#1365)
iterative/dvc.org: content/docs/command-reference/pull.md

## Examples

Let's employ a simple <abbr>workspace</abbr> with some data, code, ML models,
pipeline stages, such as the <abbr>DVC project</abbr> created for the
[Get Started](/doc/tutorials/get-started). Then we can see what happens with
`dvc pull`.

<details>

### Click and expand to setup the project

Start by cloning our example repo if you don't already have it:

```dvc
$ git clone https://github.com/iterative/example-get-started
$ cd example-get-started
```

</details>

The workspace looks almost like in this
[pipeline setup](/doc/tutorials/pipelines):

```dvc
.
├── data
│   └── data.xml.dvc
...
└── train.dvc
```

We can now just run `dvc pull` to download the most recent `data/data.xml`,
`model.pkl`, and other DVC-tracked files into the <abbr>workspace</abbr>:

```dvc
$ dvc pull

$ tree example-get-started/
example-get-started/
├── data
│   ├── data.xml
│   ├── data.xml.dvc
...
├── model.pkl
└── train.dvc
```

We can download specific <abbr>outputs</abbr> of a single DVC-file:

```dvc
$ dvc pull train.dvc
```

## Example: With dependencies

> If you followed previous example then delete the .dvc/cache directory with
> `rm -Rf .dvc/cache`. Else `dvc status -c` would output

> > `Data and pipelines are up to date.`

Author: @jorgeorpinel The block quote for the 2nd example mentioned in the https://github.com/iterative/dvc.org/pull/1365#discussion_r432795831 is this.

> > `Data and pipelines are up to date.` as the output.

Author: @jorgeorpinel The block quote for the 2nd example mentioned in the https://github.com/iterative/dvc.org/pull/1365#discussion_r432795831 is this.

Reviewer: Ok great, I didn't notice it for some reason. Let's maybe copy the one from fetch:

```suggestion
> Please delete the `.dvc/cache` directory first (with `rm -Rf .dvc/cache`) to
> follow this example if you tried the previous ones.
```

Reviewer: I'll just commit this myself in order to merge now.

Our [pipeline](/doc/command-reference/pipeline) has been setup with these
[stages](/doc/command-reference/run):

```dvc
$ dvc pipeline show evaluate.dvc
data/data.xml.dvc
prepare.dvc
featurize.dvc
train.dvc
evaluate.dvc
```

Imagine the [remote storage](/doc/command-reference/remote) has been modified
such that the data in some of these stages should be updated in the
<abbr>workspace</abbr>.

```dvc
$ dvc status -c
    deleted:            data/features/test.pkl
    deleted:            data/features/train.pkl
    deleted:            model.pkl
    ...
```

One could do a simple `dvc pull` to get all the data, but what if you only want
to retrieve part of the data?

```dvc
$ dvc pull --with-deps featurize.dvc

... Use the partial update, then pull the remaining data:

$ dvc pull
Everything is up to date.
```

With the first `dvc pull` we specified a stage in the middle of this pipeline
(`featurize.dvc`) while using `--with-deps`. DVC started with that DVC-file and

> searched backwards through the pipeline for data files to download. Later we
> ran `dvc pull` to download all the remaining data files.

Reviewer: Format fix:
```suggestion
searched backwards through the pipeline for data files to download. Later we ran
`dvc pull` to download all the remaining data files.
```

## Examples

Let's employ a simple <abbr>workspace</abbr> with some data, code, ML models,
pipeline stages, such as the <abbr>DVC project</abbr> created for the
[Get Started](/doc/tutorials/get-started). Then we can see what happens with
`dvc pull`.

<details>

### Click and expand to setup the project

Start by cloning our example repo if you don't already have it:

```dvc
$ git clone https://github.com/iterative/example-get-started
$ cd example-get-started
```

</details>

The workspace looks almost like in this
[pipeline setup](/doc/tutorials/pipelines):

```dvc
.
├── data
│   └── data.xml.dvc
...
└── train.dvc
```

We can now just run `dvc pull` to download the most recent `data/data.xml`,

> `model.pkl`, and other DVC-tracked files into the <abbr>workspace</abbr> and
> <abbr>cache</abbr>:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`model.pkl`, and other DVC-tracked files into the <abbr>workspace</abbr>:
```

```dvc
$ dvc pull

$ tree example-get-started/
example-get-started/
├── data
│   ├── data.xml
│   ├── data.xml.dvc

> │   └── ...

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Start by cloning our example repo if you don't already have it:

```dvc
$ git clone https://github.com/iterative/example-get-started
$ cd example-get-started
```

</details>

The workspace looks almost like in this
[pipeline setup](/doc/tutorials/pipelines):

```dvc
.
├── data
│   └── data.xml.dvc
├── evaluate.dvc
├── featurize.dvc
├── prepare.dvc
├── train.dvc
└── src
│   └── ...
└── train.dvc
```

We can now just run `dvc pull` to download the most recent `model.pkl`,
`data.xml`, and other DVC-tracked files into our local <abbr>cache</abbr> and
<abbr>workspace</abbr>:

```dvc
$ dvc pull

$ tree example-get-started/
example-get-started/
├── data
│   ├── data.xml
│   ├── data.xml.dvc
│   ├── features
│   │   ├── test.pkl
│   │   └── train.pkl
│   └── prepared
│       ├── test.tsv
│       └── train.tsv
├── ...
```

We can download specific <abbr>outputs</abbr> of a single DVC-file:

```dvc
$ dvc pull prepare.dvc
```

## Example: With dependencies

Our [pipeline](/doc/command-reference/pipeline) has been setup with these
[stages](/doc/command-reference/run):

```dvc
$ dvc pipeline show evaluate.dvc
data/data.xml.dvc
prepare.dvc
featurize.dvc
train.dvc
evaluate.dvc
```

> Imagine the remote storage has been modified such that the data in some of these

Reviewer: Let's please link "remote storage" here to the remote cmd ref index. Thanks

stages should be updated in the <abbr>workspace</abbr>.

```dvc
$ dvc status -c
    deleted:            data/features/test.pkl
    deleted:            data/features/train.pkl
    deleted:            model.pkl

>     deleted:            data/prepared/test.tsv
>     deleted:            data/prepared/train.tsv
>     deleted:            data/data.xml

Reviewer: Let's just use a few missing data instead deleting these lines:
```suggestion
```

Reviewer: Wait... This isn't right. `dvc status -c` checks what's on the remote. That would be relevant for `dvc push`, not `dvc pull`. Maybe this is an error in our existing docs! Please actually reproduce the example with a local remote to make sure things make sense.

Author: It isn't required for `pull` but here is it used just to show which files would be downloaded.
This is mentioned in pull [description](https://dvc.org/doc/command-reference/pull#description):
>The command `dvc status -c` can list files referenced in current DVC-files, but missing in the cache. It can be used to see what files dvc pull would download.

Reviewer: You're right. I had a lapsus there.

```

One could do a simple `dvc pull` to get all the data, but what if you only want
to retrieve part of the data?

```dvc
$ dvc pull --with-deps featurize.dvc

> ... Do some work based on the partial update
> 
> $ dvc pull --with-deps evaluate.dvc
> 
> ... Pull the rest of the data

Reviewer: We can probably simplify these lines to just:
```suggestion
... Use the partial update, then pull the remaining data:
```

> $ dvc pull
> 
> Everything is up to date.

Reviewer: I don't think there's a line break in the output here
```suggestion
I don't think there's a line break in the output:
```suggestion
$ dvc pull
Everything is up to date.
```

```

With the first `dvc pull` we specified a stage in the middle of this pipeline
(`featurize.dvc`) while using `--with-deps`. DVC started with that DVC-file and
searched backwards through the pipeline for data files to download. Because the
`evaluate.dvc` stage occurs later, its data was not pulled.

Then we ran `dvc pull` specifying the last stage, `evaluate.dvc`, and its data
was downloaded. Finally, we ran `dvc pull` with no flags to make sure that all

> data was already pulled with the previous commands.

Reviewer: This part needs another update per my suggested simplifications above.

> Note that if you followed previous example, then `dvc status -c` would output
> `Data and pipelines are up to date.` The last stage file `evaluate.dvc`
> doesn't add any more data files than those form previous stages

> 

Reviewer: Hmmm. I see why this note is there bu we shouldn't need it. Users may indeed follow examples one by one and that would kind of invalidate this whole example — it would fail before they get to this note. It would be best to add a step to make sure the data in question is deleted for the example. Maybe as a block quote (like this note) or in an expandable `<details>` section like in the 1st example has. Or if you can think of a better way, please suggest.

Reviewer: Also a couple typos in there 😋 but np since we'll be removing this text.

Reviewer: Just this is missing it seems:

> It would be best to add a step to make sure the data in question is deleted for the example.

> ## Example: Remote storage

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Example: Download from specific remote storage
```

For using the `dvc pull` command, a remote storage must be defined. (See
`dvc remote add`.) For an existing <abbr>project</abbr>, remotes are usually
already set up and you can use `dvc remote list` to check them. To remember how
it's done, and set a context for the example, let's define a default SSH remote:

```dvc
$ dvc remote add -d r1 ssh://_username_@_host_/path/to/dvc/remote/storage
$ dvc remote list
r1	ssh://_username_@_host_/path/to/dvc/remote/storage
```

> DVC supports several
> [remote types](/doc/command-reference/remote/add#supported-storage-types).

> Having some images and other files in remote storage, we can pull all changed
> files from the current Git branch:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To download DVC-tracked data from a specific DVC remote, use the `--remote`
(`-r`) option of `dvc pull`:
```

```dvc
$ dvc pull --remote r1
```

> 
> This downloads all DVC-tracked files into our local <abbr>cache</abbr> and
> <abbr>workspace</abbr>.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

## Examples

Let's employ a simple <abbr>workspace</abbr> with some data, code, ML models,
pipeline stages, such as the <abbr>DVC project</abbr> created for the
[Get Started](/doc/tutorials/get-started). Then we can see what happens with
`dvc pull`.

<details>

### Click and expand to setup the project

Start by cloning our example repo if you don't already have it:

```dvc
$ git clone https://github.com/iterative/example-get-started
$ cd example-get-started
```

</details>

The workspace looks almost like in this
[pipeline setup](/doc/tutorials/pipelines):

```dvc
.
├── data
│   └── data.xml.dvc
├── evaluate.dvc
├── featurize.dvc
├── prepare.dvc
├── train.dvc
└── src
│   └── ...
└── train.dvc
```

> 

Reviewer: Not sure this part is needed for a simple pull example.

Reviewer: Also, train.dvc is repeated... ?

Reviewer: Maybe just list a few key items:
```
.
├── data
│   └── data.xml.dvc
...
└── train.dvc
```

> We can now just run `dvc pull` to download the most recent `model.pkl`,
> `data.xml`, and other DVC-tracked files into our local <abbr>cache</abbr> and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We can now just run `dvc pull` to download the most recent `data/data.xml`,
`model.pkl`, and other DVC-tracked files into the <abbr>workspace</abbr> and
```
- Correct data path
- List raw data before resulting model

Reviewer: > download... into our local cache and workspace

This is not exactly correct, it sounds like the data is downloaded twice or copies made in the workspace. Can you clarify the behavior please? Ping me if unsure

Author: yeah actually it doesn't explain correctly. I took this from pull [definition](https://dvc.org/doc/command-reference/pull#pull). 
Data is downloaded to cache and it is not copied in workspace but instead [reflinks](https://dvc.org/doc/user-guide/large-dataset-optimization#file-link-types-for-the-dvc-cache) are used.

Reviewer: Good catch. Hmmm yeah we try to keep things simple in those short introductions for cmd refs. I guess it's not incorrect after all, just lacks detail. That's OK, it's explained later in the description.

In this example let's just say "into the workspace". Mentioning the cache seems unnecessary actually.

Reviewer: I'll do it.

<abbr>workspace</abbr>:

```dvc
$ dvc pull

$ tree example-get-started/
example-get-started/
├── data
│   ├── data.xml
│   ├── data.xml.dvc

> │   ├── features
> │   │   ├── test.pkl
> │   │   └── train.pkl
> │   └── prepared
> │       ├── test.tsv
> │       └── train.tsv
> ├── ...

Reviewer: Something like
```suggestion
...
├── model.pkl
└── train.dvc
```
matching my other comment above

```

> We can download specific files that are <abbr>outputs</abbr> of a specific
> DVC-file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We can download specific <abbr>outputs</abbr> of a single DVC-file:
```

```dvc

> $ dvc pull prepare.dvc

Reviewer: Maybe use train.dvc since prepare is no longer mentioned above given my suggestions. But it was a nice idea to switch it up here.
